Though the sales gains these two dealers are experiencing are above average for their business , farm equipment sales are climbing in most rural areas . 
Paradoxically , the sales rise is due in large measure to Government efforts to slash farm output . 
Although the Administration's program cut crop acreage to the lowest point since 1934 , farmers , with the help of extra fertilizer and good weather , are getting such high yields per acre that many are being forced to buy new harvesting machines . 
Fields of corn and some other crops in many cases are so dense that older equipment cannot handle them efficiently . 
The higher price supports provided by the new legislation , together with rising prices for farm products , are pushing up farm income , making it possible for farmers to afford the new machinery . 
Seven of the eight companies that turn out full lines of farm machinery say sales by their dealers since the start of August have shown gains averaging nearly 10% above last year . 
`` In August our dealers sold 13% more farm machinery than a year earlier and in September retail sales were 14% higher than last year '' , says Mark V. Keeler , farm equipment vice president of International Harvester Co. . 
For the year to date , sales of the company's farm equipment dealers still lag about 5% behind 1960 . 
Two of three report gains 
 
Among individual dealers questioned in nearly a score of states , two out of three report their sales since August 1 show sizable gains from a year earlier , with the increases ranging from 5% to 50% . 
Not all sections are showing an upswing , however ; ; 
the drought-seared North Central states are the most notable exceptions to the uptrend . 
The significance of the pickup in farm machinery sales extends beyond the farm equipment industry . 
The demand for farm machinery is regarded as a yardstick of rural buying generally . 
Farmers spend more of their income on tractors and implements than on any other group of products . 
More than 20 million people live on farms and they own a fourth of the nation's trucks , buy more gasoline than any other industry and provide a major market for home appliances , chemicals and other products . 
Farmers are so eager for new machinery that they're haggling less over prices than they did a year ago , dealers report . 
Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so we can get more money on a sale '' , says Jack Martin , who sells J. I. Case tractors and implements in Sioux City , Iowa . 
`` This morning , we allowed a farmer $600 on the old picker he traded in on a new $2,700 model . 
Last year , we probably would have given him $700 for a comparable machine '' . 
Mr. Martin sold 21 tractors in August ; ; 
in August of 1960 , he sold seven . 
Dealers' stocks down 
 
With dealer stocks of new equipment averaging about 25% below a year ago , the affects of the rural recovery are being felt almost immediately by the country's farm equipment manufacturers . 
For example , farm equipment shipments of International Harvester in August climbed about 5% above a year earlier , Mr. Keeler reports . 
Tractor production at Massey-Ferguson , Ltd. , of Toronto in July and August rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier , says John Staiger , vice president . 
With the lower dealer inventories and the stepped-up demand some manufacturers believe there could be shortages of some implements . 
Merritt D. Hill , Ford Motor Co. vice president , says his company is starting to get calls daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping dates on orders for corn pickers . 
Except for a few months in late 1960 and early 1961 , retail farm equipment sales have trailed year-earlier levels since the latter part of 1959 . 
The rise in sales last winter was checked when the Government's new feed grain program was adopted ; ; 
the program resulted in a cutback of around 20% in planted acreage and , as a result , reduced the immediate need for machines . 
Nearly all of the farm equipment manufacturers and dealers say the upturn in sales has resulted chiefly from the recent improvement in crop prospects . 
Total farm output for this year is officially forecast at 129% of the 1947-49 average , three points higher than the July 1 estimate and exactly equal to the final figure for 1960 . 
The Government also is aiding farmers' income prospects . 
Agriculture Department economists estimate the Government this year will hand farmers $1.4 billion in special subsidies and incentive payments , well above the record $1.1 billion of 1958 and about double the $639 million of 1960 . 
Price support loans may total another $1 billion this year . 
With cash receipts from marketings expected to be slightly above 1960 , farmers' gross income is estimated at $39.5 billion , $1.5 billion above 1960's record high . 
Net income may reach $12.7 billion , up $1 billion from 1960 and the highest since 1953 . 
The Government reported last week that the index of prices received by farmers rose in the month ended at mid-September for the third consecutive month , reaching 242% of the 1910-14 average compared with 237% at mid-July . 

 
